= rsyslog2 - Data processing suite at metacentrum.cz

This software suite is designed to aid creating and maintaining data processing
cloud within a realm of CESNET.CZ and beyond. It is based on masterless puppet 
and bash. Whole suite is bootsrapped from git to the clean provisioned 
Debian Jessie VM.

=== Acknowledgement

Computational resources were provided by the MetaCentrum under the program
LM2010005 and the CERIT-SC under the program Centre CERIT Scientific Cloud,
part of the Operational Program Research and Development for Innovations, Reg.
no. CZ.1.05/3.2.00/08.0144.

=== Components

Each major component should provide a puppet module and set of install/check
and other scripts within itself.

  component/ 			-- puppet module
  component/fileX		-- additional file (perhaps a script)
  component/tests/componentX.sh	-- simple test checking real state of the service
  				   typically used by jenkins autotests

=== Roles

  role.install.sh		-- script for masterless installation
  role.check.sh			-- script for state detection (noop show_diff)

--------

== Usecases

The main usecase is for creating and maintaining services for logging and log
processing at http://www.metacentrum.cz. Suite provides components for
development and testing of rsyslog packages, installing and maintaining log
processing gateway, and managing private/public cloud for data processing based
primaliry on ELK stack (http://www.elasticsearch.org) and MongodDB
(http://www.mongodb.com)


=== Ops/Maintenance

Bootstrap suite from a git repository, subsequent calls would pull from master repo.

  wget esb.metacentrum.cz/rsyslog2.git/bootstrap.install.sh && sh bootstrap.install.sh
  cd /puppet && ls -l
  sh bootstrap.install.sh

During ops, components/roles can be installed on managed node, or state can be cheched
against roles.

  #   install a component
  $ sh componentX.install.sh
  #   run a component test to check if installation was successfull
  $ sh component/tests/component.sh

  #   use component manually
  $ puppet apply --modulespath=/puppet -i 'class {"rsyslog-client": rsyslog_server=>"a.b.c.d"}'

Lately, a state of node can change, perhaps by rutime tuning or more
development. A <tt>check_stddev.sh</tt> can be used to check changed things
within the system.

  #   show deviation from desired state, all available components .check.sh will be called
  $ sh check_stddev.sh

Then, changes can be accepted into repository or node state could be reverted to origial state.
 
  $ cp /etc/fileX component/templates/fileX
  $ vim component/manifests/subclass.pp
  $ check_stddev.sh
  $ git status
  $ git commit

==== Example installation of ELK analytics node

Commands will ensure installation of basic set of components for data analysis
(rediser queue, elasticsearch data node, logstash processor, kibana frontend).

  $ wget esb.metacentrum.cz/rsyslog2.git/bootstrap.install.sh && sh bootstrap.install.sh
  $ cd /puppet && ls -l
  $ sh phase2.install.sh
  $ sh rediser.install.sh
  $ sh elk.install.sh
  $ sh rediser/tests/rediser.sh
  $ sh elk/tests/elk.sh
  $ links http://$(facter fqdn)/dash.html
 
==== Example installation of rsyslog development node

Commands will ensure installation of basic set of components for rsyslog development
(compiler, debugger, libs-dev,...)

  $ wget esb.metacentrum.cz/rsyslog2.git/bootstrap.install.sh && sh bootstrap.install.sh
  $ cd /puppet && ls -l
  $ sh phase2.install.sh
  $ sh rsyslog-dev.install.sh


=== Automating tasks with (Robert) Jenkins

While maintaining a small site can be done by hand as shown in previous
chapter, large environment can use modules/components through standard
puppetmaster, but neither approach is suitable for fast development iterations
or creating an ad-hoc experiment environment (like performance or acceptance
testing).

Tasks needed can be automated using shell scripting and automated by Jenkins
for scheduling, task chaining and result aggregations -- eg. creating an
rsyslog server, 2 clients, spawning a test and archiving outputs and artefacts
for latter use. In out usecase Jenkins is mean to be running on private VM,
equiped with user's credentials and performing tasks towards available clouds
and provisioned VMs. More documentation can be found in separate Jenkins component 
documentation.

--------

== Available components

* metalib[link:puppet/metalib/README_full.html]
* rsyslog[link:puppet/rsyslog/README_full.html]
* rediser[link:puppet/rediser/README_full.html]
* elk[link:puppet/elk]
* jenkins[link:puppet/jenkins/README_full.html]
* netflow (nfdump, frpobe, pmacct)
* mongomine
