= jenkins

Module provides installation and basic configuration and set of script for
Jenkins to perform semiautomatic creation of cloud nodes with designated roles
installed. It is used mainly for development of puppet modules with automatic
testing and playing testing scenarios for rsylog component. Primarily it should
be installed to private VM since Jenkins must be provisioned with user
credentials and module does not configure any security for Jenkins.


== Cloud/Virtualization helpers

Cloud/Virtualization helpers provides unified means for creating VM instalnces
and shell acces to them.  All helpers take $VMNAME (environment variable) as
instance selector or set a default one. All helpers provides subset of
primitives:

* list     -- lists running VMs
* build    -- build the instance (prepares local image; kvm, xen)
* start    -- boot the instance
* status   -- get status of instance
* shutdown -- gracefully shuts down the instance
* destroy  -- destroys the instance immediately
* ssh      -- gets shell access to the instance

* creds    -- initializes users credentials for accessing the cloud
* login    -- initializes credential caches (metacloud only)
* front    -- gets shell access to cloud/virtualization frontend

=== kvm.init

Used only for basic local testing inside jenkins VM itself with nested kvm as
hypervisor.  Uses qemu-debian-create-image.sh for image creating via debbootstrap.

=== xen.init

Used for hosting VM on remote dom0, uses LVM as storage backend and debbotstrap
for image creation (bin/xen-debian-create-image.sh, bin/xen-destroy-image.sh).

=== metacloud.init

Used for hosting VMs in OpenNebula cloud using onetools. Uses static templates
(templates.*) for VM provisioning. Helper must initialize users credentials to
/dev/shm (<tt>/dev/shm/username</tt> and <tt>/dev/shm/usercert.pem</tt>)

  # run initializer
  $ metacloud.init creds
  # transfer or create local credentials
  jenkins@debian:/tmp$ scp user@remote:secretsdir/* /dev/shm
  # create auth cookie  
  jenkins@debian:/tmp$ metacloud.init login
  # ensure templates in OpenNebula/Metacloud
  jenkins@debian:/tmp$ metacloud.init templates
  # quit jenkins user shell
  jenkins@debian:/tmp$ exit

  # work with jenkins
  $ browser http://localhost:8081
  # work with instances
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init build
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init start
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init status
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init list
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init ssh '/bin/true'
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init ssh 'cd /puppet && sh elk.install.sh'
 

=== magrathea.init

Private helper used for hosting VMs in Magrathea grid using ssh and torque
scheduler. Helper must initialize users credentials.

  # run initializer
  $ echo "username" > /dev/shm/username
  $ magrathea.init creds
  $ magrathea.init list
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init build
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init start
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init status
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init ssh '/bin/true'
  $ VMNAME=RDEVCLIENTX metacloud.init ssh 'cd /puppet && sh elk.install.sh'


== Other files

* <tt>bin/popjobs.sh</tt> -- fetches jenkins configured jobs back to puppet repository
* <tt>bin/run_jobs.sh</tt> -- runs set of jenkins job by regexp name. Used for quick'n'dirty jobs chaining

--------
